doc: nrf: Adding documentation support for Raw Transmit operation (#13161)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/device_guides/working_with_nrf/nrf70/developing/raw_tx_operation.rst

See the :ref:`wifi_shell_sample` sample for more information on configuring mode setting and channel setting for raw packet transmission via shell commands.

The shell commands and network management APIs to switch between operational modes and to set channel are provided below

.. list-table:: Wi-Fi raw packet transmission network management APIs
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Network management APIs
     - Wi-Fi shell command
     - Example Usage
     - Description
   * - net_mgmt(NET_REQUEST_WIFI_MODE)
     - wifi mode -i<interface instance> <configuration>
     - wifi mode -i1 -st
     - configure interface instance 1 to Station + TX injection mode
   * - net_mgmt(NET_REQUEST_WIFI_MODE)
     - wifi mode -i<interface instance> <configuration>
     - wifi mode -i1 -s
     - configure interface instance 1 to pure station mode
   * - net_mgmt(NET_REQUEST_WIFI_CHANNEL)
     - wifi channel -i<interface instance> <channel number to set>
     - wifi channel -i1 -c6
     - set raw transmission channel to 6 for interface 1 to be used in Station idle mode

.. _ug_nrf70_developing_tx_injection_mode_usage_requirements:

TX injection mode usage requirements
************************************

> The raw packet to be transmitted by an application should be a fully conformant IEEE 802.11 packet as defined below.

Reviewer: Double-check on this: is it a "should" or a "must"? 
Assuming that it is a must, perhaps worth adding also a "note" to tell users that non-conformant packets will be checked and dropped at the nRF70 device and won't be transmitted on - air.

Author: done

.. _ug_nrf70_developing_sending_raw_ieee_80211_packets:

Raw IEEE 802.11 packet transmission
###################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

> The nRF70 series device supports the transmission of raw IEEE 802.11 packets. Raw IEEE 802.11 packets are packets that are not modified by the 802.11 MAC layer during transmission by the nRF70 Series device. It is the responsibility of the application that intends to send the raw 802.11 packet to construct and provide fully-conformant 802.11 packet along with the required set of packet transmit and PHY parameters. The MAC layer on nRF70 Series device will transmit the raw 802.11 packets on air using the provided packet data, TX, and PHY parameters.

Author: okay

> The nRF70 series device supports the transmission of raw IEEE 802.11 packets. Raw IEEE 802.11 packets are packets that are not modified by the 802.11 MAC layer during transmission by the nRF70 Series device. It is the responsibility of the application that intends to send the raw 802.11 packet to construct and provide fully-conformant 802.11 packet along with the required set of packet transmit and PHY parameters. The MAC layer on nRF70 Series device will transmit the raw 802.11 packets on air using the provided packet data, TX, and PHY parameters.

Author: done

.. _ug_nrf70_developing_enabling_raw_packet_transmit_feature:

Enabling raw packet transmit feature
************************************

Applications that intend to use the raw packet transmit feature need to enable the ``CONFIG_NRF700X_RAW_DATA_TX`` Kconfig option in the project configuration.

.. _ug_nrf70_developing_tx_injection_mode:

> TX injection mode

Author: okay

> TX injection mode

Reviewer 2: I suggest using TX-injection as it is used in Zephyr docs as well but leave it up to you. https://docs.zephyrproject.org/apidoc/latest/structwifi__channel__info.html

*****************

> The nRF70 series device supports raw 802.11 packet transmission when TX injection mode is enabled. A net_mgmt run-time API ``NET_REQUEST_WIFI_MODE`` has been provided to enable TX-Injection mode of operation. The same API can be used to disable raw 802.11 packet transmission when raw 802.11 packet transmission is not desired.

Author: okay

> The nRF70 series device supports raw 802.11 packet transmission when TX injection mode is enabled. A net_mgmt run-time API ``NET_REQUEST_WIFI_MODE`` has been provided to enable TX-Injection mode of operation. The same API can be used to disable raw 802.11 packet transmission when raw 802.11 packet transmission is not desired.

Author: what is meant by "any mode by the application" ? Can you kindly let me know. Will make the change accordingly

> The nRF70 series device supports raw 802.11 packet transmission when TX injection mode is enabled. A net_mgmt run-time API ``NET_REQUEST_WIFI_MODE`` has been provided to enable TX-Injection mode of operation. The same API can be used to disable raw 802.11 packet transmission when raw 802.11 packet transmission is not desired.

Author: have modified the above as per suggestion

> The nRF70 series device supports raw 802.11 packet transmission when TX injection mode is enabled. A net_mgmt run-time API ``NET_REQUEST_WIFI_MODE`` has been provided to enable TX-Injection mode of operation. The same API can be used to disable raw 802.11 packet transmission when raw 802.11 packet transmission is not desired.

Reviewer: my bad - I meant to say "any more" @VivekUppunda

> The nRF70 series device supports raw 802.11 packet transmission when TX injection mode is enabled. A net_mgmt run-time API ``NET_REQUEST_WIFI_MODE`` has been provided to enable TX-Injection mode of operation. The same API can be used to disable raw 802.11 packet transmission when raw 802.11 packet transmission is not desired.

Author: okay - will address this accordingly

> The nRF70 series device supports raw 802.11 packet transmission when TX injection mode is enabled. A net_mgmt run-time API ``NET_REQUEST_WIFI_MODE`` has been provided to enable TX-Injection mode of operation. The same API can be used to disable raw 802.11 packet transmission when raw 802.11 packet transmission is not desired.

Author: done

> TX injection mode can be enabled when the nRF70 Series device operates in Station mode, both when it is operating as connected Station or as an unconnected Station (i.e. not connected to Access Point).

Author: This got changed after initial comments from Chaitanya. Will follow what is the nomenclature that is normally used in the documentation if I am informed of the same

> TX injection mode can be enabled when the nRF70 Series device operates in Station mode, both when it is operating as connected Station or as an unconnected Station (i.e. not connected to Access Point).

Reviewer 2: Agree with @ioannisg ,  better to use non-connected.

> TX injection mode can be enabled when the nRF70 Series device operates in Station mode, both when it is operating as connected Station or as an unconnected Station (i.e. not connected to Access Point).

Author: done

> If TX injection mode is enabled, a channel of operation also has to be configured. This channel will be used as the default transmit channel when the device is **not operating as a connected Station**. When the device is **operating as a connected Station**, the Station connected channel will be used for RAW 802.11 packet transmission.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When TX injection mode is enabled, the user needs to also configure the operating channel. This channel will be used as the default transmit channel when the nRF70 device operates as a **non-connected** Station. When the device operates as a  Station **connected** to an AP on a given channel, the same channel will be used for raw 802.11 packet transmission mode.
```

Author: done

The net_mgmt API ``NET_REQUEST_WIFI_CHANNEL`` can be used to set the desired channel for raw 802.11 packet transmission.

See the :ref:`wifi_shell_sample` sample for more information on configuring mode setting and channel setting for raw packet transmission via shell commands.

> The shell commands and network management APIs to swtich between operational modes and to set channel are provided below

Reviewer: switch*

Author: okay

.. list-table:: Wi-Fi raw packet transmission network management APIs
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Network management APIs
     - Wi-Fi shell command
     - Example Usage
     - Description
   * - net_mgmt(NET_REQUEST_WIFI_MODE)
     - wifi mode -i<interface instance> <configuration>
     - wifi mode -i1 -st
     - configure interface instance 1 to Station + TX injector mode
   * - net_mgmt(NET_REQUEST_WIFI_MODE)
     - wifi mode -i<interface instance> <configuration>
     - wifi mode -i1 -s
     - configure interface instance 1 to pure station mode
   * - net_mgmt(NET_REQUEST_WIFI_CHANNEL)
     - wifi channel -i<interface instance> <channel number to set>
     - wifi channel -i1 -c6
     - set raw transmission channel to 6 for interface 1 to be used in Station idle mode

.. _ug_nrf70_developing_tx_injection_mode_usage_requirements:

TX injection mode usage requirements
************************************

> The raw packet to be transmitted by an application should be a fully conformant 802.11 packet as defined below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The raw packet to be transmitted by an application should be a fully conformant IEEE 802.11 packet as defined below.
```

Author: done

* The packet has a valid 802.11 MAC header

> * Any 802.11 Information Elements that are supposed to be part of the 802.11 frame

Reviewer: This is a bit unclear

Author: Usually a data frame can have HT/VHT/HE Information elements that are part of the frame. I desired to mention that

Author: removed the line

> * The FCS is not added to the packet by the application and is concatenated by the nRF70 Series device

Reviewer: Would be nice to define the FCS abbreviation here.

Author: okay

Author: done

> In addtion, it should provide transmit parameters that inform the nrf70 series Wi-Fi device driver on how the packet should be transmitted. It should also provide a packet marker identifying itself as a special packet which should be handled differently by the nrf70 series Wi-Fi driver. The transmit parameters and the packet marker together forms the raw packet transmit header. The raw packet transmit header is prepended to the 802.11 conformant raw packet before transmitting the packet to the lower layers by the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition, the raw packet should provide transmit parameters that inform the nRF70 Series Wi-Fi device driver on how the packet should be transmitted. It should also provide a packet marker identifying itself as a special packet which should be handled differently by the nRF70 Series Wi-Fi driver. The transmit parameters and the packet marker together form the raw packet transmit header. The raw packet transmit header is prepended to the 802.11 conformant raw packet   before the packet is passed to the Wi-Fi driver by the application.
```

Reviewer: just making sure @VivekUppunda : who is adding the prepended raw header? Is it the application, or is it done by the TX injection mode? Guess the first, but want to double check.

Author: The prepended raw header is to be created and attached by the application

Author: done

Refer structure ``nrfxlib/nrf_wifi/fw_if/umac_if/inc/default/fmac_structs.h/nrf_wifi_fmac_rawtx_mode`` for setting the ``tx_mode``  parameter in the raw packet transmit header.

.. _ug_nrf70_developing_raw_packet_transmit_operation:

Raw 802.11 packet transmit operation
************************************

The raw packet data has to be encompassed in an 802.11 packet and prepended with the raw transmit header before it is transmitted via raw socket to the nRF70 Wi-Fi device driver for transmission. The packet is forwarded to the nRF70 Series device which transmits the packet over the air. All 802.11 MAC layer rules for the 802.11 packet (e.g. link-layer acknowledgements, retransmissions etc) are handled by the nRF70 Series device. The packet structure and raw packet operation is depicted below:

.. figure:: images/nrf7000_packet_Injection_tx_Flow.svg
   :alt: Raw packet transmit packet structure and raw packet operation flow

   Raw packet transmit packet structure and raw packet operation flow

.. _ug_nrf70_developing_channel_operation:

Channel operation
*****************

> Channel configuration for raw packet transmission during station idle mode is necessary. Though there is a fallback channel on which packets are transmitted when the raw packet channel is not configured, It is desirable to configure an explicit channel of operation for raw packets when station is in disconnected idle state. Raw packet transmissions will follow the below channel operation for raw packet transmission:

Reviewer: I do not think you have defined what you mean by "Station idle mode", so this could be a bit confusing, at least to me.
Do you simply mean that the user needs to configure the channel for raw packet transmission when the nRF70 Series device operates in Station mode but is not connected to an AP?

Reviewer: Also below you refer to "disconnected idle state"
Unless you this means something else, I would rather see us using a consistent terminology. So here it would be "non-connected" Station mode

Author: will re-word this. Need to check how to

Reviewer: OK great - will wait for the new version

Author: I just re-worded to *non-connected station* which are now aligned with the rest of the document. Kindly check

.. _ug_nrf70_developing_sending_raw_ieee_80211_packets:

Raw IEEE 802.11 packet transmission
###################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

> The nRF70 Series device supports the transmission of raw IEEE 802.11 packets. Raw IEEE 802.11 packets are packets that are not modified by the 802.11 MAC layer during transmission by the nRF70 Series device. It is the responsibility of the application that intends to send the raw 802.11 packet to construct and provide fully-conformant 802.11 packet along with the required set of packet transmit and PHY parameters. The MAC layer on nRF70 Series device will transmit the raw 802.11 packets on air using the provided packet data, TX, and PHY parameters.

Author: done

.. _ug_nrf70_developing_enabling_raw_packet_transmit_feature:

Enabling raw packet transmit feature
************************************

> Applications that intend to use the raw packet transmit feature need to enable the ``CONFIG_NRF700X_RAW_DATA_TX`` Kconfig option in the project configuration.

Author: done

Refer structure ``nrfxlib/nrf_wifi/fw_if/umac_if/inc/default/fmac_structs.h/nrf_wifi_fmac_rawtx_mode`` for setting the ``tx_mode``  parameter in the raw packet transmit header.

.. _ug_nrf70_developing_raw_packet_transmit_operation:

Raw 802.11 packet transmit operation
************************************

The raw packet data has to be encompassed in an 802.11 packet and prepended with the raw transmit header before it is transmitted via raw socket to the nRF70 Wi-Fi device driver for transmission. The packet is forwarded to the nRF70 Series device which transmits the packet over the air. All 802.11 MAC layer rules for the 802.11 packet (e.g. link-layer acknowledgements, retransmissions etc) are handled by the nRF70 Series device. The packet structure and raw packet operation is depicted below:

.. figure:: images/nrf7000_packet_injection_tx_flow.png
   :alt: Raw packet transmit packet structure and raw packet operation flow

   Raw packet transmit packet structure and raw packet operation flow

.. _ug_nrf70_developing_channel_operation:

> Channel operation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Operating channel for raw packet transmission
```

Author: done

*****************

> Channel configuration for raw packet transmission during station non-connected state is necessary. Though there is a fallback channel on which packets are transmitted when the raw packet channel is not configured, It is desirable to configure an explicit channel of operation for raw packets when station is in non-connected state. Raw packet transmissions will follow the below channel operation for raw packet transmission:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
User should explicitly configure the channel for raw packet transmission when the device operates in non-connected Station mode. The device will use a fallback channel for raw packet transmission if one is not configured.

Channel configuration for raw packet transmission will be applied as follows:
```

> Channel configuration for raw packet transmission during station non-connected state is necessary. Though there is a fallback channel on which packets are transmitted when the raw packet channel is not configured, It is desirable to configure an explicit channel of operation for raw packets when station is in non-connected state. Raw packet transmissions will follow the below channel operation for raw packet transmission:

Author: done as per suggested change

> * **non-connected station + TX injection mode configured and channel is not set:** The raw packet is transmitted on channel 1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Non-connected Station with TX injection mode configured and channel not set:** The raw packet is transmitted on channel 1 (fallback channel).
```

Author: done

> * **non-connected station + TX injection mode configured and channel is set:** The raw packet is transmitted on configured channel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Non-connected Station with TX injection mode configured and channel set by the user:** The raw packet is transmitted on the configured channel.
```

Author: done

> * **Station connected + TX injection mode configured:** The raw packet is transmitted on the present connected AP channel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Connected Station with TX injection mode configured:** The raw packet is transmitted on the channel the device is connected to the AP.
```

Author: done

> * **Station disconnection from AP + TX injection mode configured (channel configured before connection to AP):** The packet is sent on configured channel for raw packet transmission.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Station disconnected from the AP and TX injection mode configured (channel configured before connection to AP):** The raw packet is transmitted on the configured channel.
```

Author: done

> * **Station disconnection from AP + TX injection mode configured (channel not configured before connection to AP):** The packet is sent on channel 1 for raw packet transmission.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Station disconnected from AP and TX injection mode configured (channel not configured before connection to AP):** The raw packet is transmitted on channel 1 (fallback channel).
```

Author: done

.. _ug_nrf70_developing_sending_raw_ieee_80211_packets:

Raw IEEE 802.11 packet transmission
###################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The nRF70 Series device supports the transmission of raw IEEE 802.11 packets. Raw IEEE 802.11 packets are packets that are not modified by the 802.11 MAC layer during transmission by the nRF70 Series device. It is the responsibility of the application that intends to send the raw 802.11 packet to construct and provide fully-conformant 802.11 packet along with the required set of packet transmit and PHY parameters. The MAC layer on nRF70 Series device will transmit the raw 802.11 packets on air using the provided packet data, TX, and PHY parameters.

.. _ug_nrf70_developing_enabling_raw_packet_transmit_feature:

Enabling raw packet transmit feature
************************************

Applications that intend to use the raw packet transmit feature need to enable the ``CONFIG_NRF700X_RAW_DATA_TX`` Kconfig option in the project configuration.

.. _ug_nrf70_developing_tx_injection_mode:

TX injection mode
*****************

> The nRF70 Series device supports raw 802.11 packet transmission when TX injection mode is enabled in the nRF Wi-Fi driver. A net_mgmt run-time API ``NET_REQUEST_WIFI_MODE`` has been provided to enable TX injection mode of operation. The same API can be used to disable TX injection mode in the driver when raw 802.11 packet transmission is not required any more by the application.

Author: done

TX injection mode can be enabled when the nRF70 Series device operates in Station mode, both when it is operating as connected Station or as an non-connected Station (i.e. not connected to Access Point).

> When TX injection mode is enabled, the user needs to also configure the operating channel. This channel will be used as the default transmit channel when the nRF70 device operates as a **non-connected** Station. When the device operates as a  Station **connected** to an AP on a given channel, the same channel will be used for raw 802.11 packet transmission mode.

Author: done

The net_mgmt API ``NET_REQUEST_WIFI_CHANNEL`` can be used to set the desired channel for raw 802.11 packet transmission.

> See the :ref:`wifi_shell_sample` sample for more information on configuring mode setting and channel setting for raw packet transmission via shell commands.

Author: done

> The shell commands and network management APIs to switch between operational modes and to set channel are provided below

Author: done

.. list-table:: Wi-Fi raw packet transmission network management APIs
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Network management APIs
     - Wi-Fi shell command
     - Example Usage
     - Description
   * - net_mgmt(NET_REQUEST_WIFI_MODE)
     - wifi mode -i<interface instance> <configuration>
     - wifi mode -i1 -st

>      - configure interface instance 1 to Station + TX injection mode

Author: done

   * - net_mgmt(NET_REQUEST_WIFI_MODE)
     - wifi mode -i<interface instance> <configuration>
     - wifi mode -i1 -s

>      - configure interface instance 1 to pure station mode

Author: done

   * - net_mgmt(NET_REQUEST_WIFI_CHANNEL)
     - wifi channel -i<interface instance> <channel number to set>
     - wifi channel -i1 -c6

>      - set raw transmission channel to 6 for interface 1 to be used in Station idle mode

Author: done

.. _ug_nrf70_developing_tx_injection_mode_usage_requirements:

TX injection mode usage requirements
************************************

> The raw packet to be transmitted by an application must be a fully conformant IEEE 802.11 packet as defined below.

Author: done

* The packet has a valid 802.11 MAC header

> * The Frame Check Sequence (FCS) is not added to the packet by the application and is concatenated by the nRF70 Series device

Author: done

.. note::

>    If the packet is not a properly framed 802.11 packet, it will be dropped by the nRF70 Series device and will not be transmitted on air

Author: done

> In addtion, the raw packet should provide transmit parameters that inform the nRF70 Series Wi-Fi device driver on how the packet should be transmitted. It should also provide a packet marker identifying itself as a special packet which should be handled differently by the nRF70 series Wi-Fi driver. The transmit parameters and the packet marker together form the raw packet transmit header. The raw packet transmit header is prepended to the 802.11 conformant raw packet before the packet is passed to the nRF Wi-Fi driver by the application.

Author: done

> The raw packet transmit header elements and their description is provided below:

Author: done

.. list-table:: Wi-Fi raw packet transmission header elements
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Transmit and PHY parameters
     - Description
   * - magic_num

>      - magic number to identify a raw packet. It is set to 0x12345678.

Author: done

   * - data_rate

>      - Data rate at which packet is to be transmitted. Depends on ``tx_mode`` parameter. If ``tx_mode`` is set to legacy mode, data rate is the number provided. If ``tx_mode`` is set to HT/VHT/HE mode, the data rate is the MCS rate.

Author: done

   * - packet_length

>      - Packet length of 802.11 raw packet excluding the raw transmit packet header length.

Author: done

   * - tx_mode

>      - Mode describing if packet is VHT, HT, HE or Legacy.

Author: done

   * - queue
     - Wi-Fi access category mapping for packet.
   * - raw_tx_flag
     - Flag indicating raw packet transmission. This is reserved for driver use.

Refer structure ``nrfxlib/nrf_wifi/fw_if/umac_if/inc/default/fmac_structs.h/raw_tx_pkt_header`` for the raw packet header.

Refer structure ``nrfxlib/nrf_wifi/fw_if/umac_if/inc/default/fmac_structs.h/nrf_wifi_fmac_ac`` for setting the ``queue`` parameter in the raw packet transmit header.

> Refer structure ``nrfxlib/nrf_wifi/fw_if/umac_if/inc/default/fmac_structs.h/nrf_wifi_fmac_rawtx_mode`` for setting the ``tx_mode``  parameter in the raw packet transmit header.

Author: As these are referring to the structures - i can state something like this. 

you can refer the relevant structures at:

> Refer structure ``nrfxlib/nrf_wifi/fw_if/umac_if/inc/default/fmac_structs.h/nrf_wifi_fmac_rawtx_mode`` for setting the ``tx_mode``  parameter in the raw packet transmit header.

Author: modified by adding :file:

.. _ug_nrf70_developing_raw_packet_transmit_operation:

Raw 802.11 packet transmit operation
************************************

> The raw packet data has to be encompassed in an 802.11 packet and prepended with the raw transmit header before it is transmitted via raw socket to the nRF70 Wi-Fi device driver for transmission. The packet is forwarded to the nRF70 Series device which transmits the packet over the air. All 802.11 MAC layer rules for the 802.11 packet (e.g. link-layer acknowledgements, retransmissions etc) are handled by the nRF70 Series device. The packet structure and raw packet operation is depicted below:

Author: done

.. figure:: images/nrf7000_packet_injection_tx_flow.png
   :alt: Raw packet transmit packet structure and raw packet operation flow

   Raw packet transmit packet structure and raw packet operation flow

.. _ug_nrf70_developing_operating_channel_for_raw_packet_transmission:

Operating channel for raw packet transmission
*********************************************

> User should explicitly configure the channel for raw packet transmission when the device operates in non-connected Station mode. The device will use a fallback channel for raw packet transmission if one is not configured.

Author: done

> Channel configuration for raw packet transmission will be applied as follows:

Author: done

* **Non-connected station with TX injection mode configured and channel not set:** The raw packet is transmitted on channel 1.
* **Non-connected station with TX injection mode configured and channel set by the user:** The raw packet is transmitted on configured channel.
* **Connected Station with TX injection mode configured:** The raw packet is transmitted on the channel the device is connected to the AP.
* **Station disconnected from the AP and TX injection mode configured (channel configured before connection to AP):** The raw packet is transmitted on the configured channel

> * **Station disconnected from the AP and TX injection mode configured (channel not configured before connection to AP):** The raw packet is transmitted on channel 1 (i.e. fallback channel).

Author: I wished to show the device setup in bold and what will happen for the raw transmission and which channel it will be transmitted on

> * **Station disconnected from the AP and TX injection mode configured (channel not configured before connection to AP):** The raw packet is transmitted on channel 1 (i.e. fallback channel).

Author: I wished to keep the bold handling but if it is not a proper documentation rule, i will remove it.

.. _ug_nrf70_developing_raw_tx_operation:

> Raw packet transmission

Reviewer: Maybe change to "Sending Raw IEEE 802.11 packets", which includes a bit of more info.

Author: okay

Author: okay

Author: modified to Raw 802.11 packet transmission as heading

#######################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

> The nrf70 series device supports the transmission of raw packets. Raw packets are packets that are not touched by the 802.11 MAC layer during transmission. The Application should provide an 802.11 conformant packet with transmit parameters which the 802.11 MAC layer will utilize to transmit packets.

Reviewer: Pls, switch to using "nRF70 Series" in the right style :)
And we should refer to the API, here.

Proposal: The nRF70 Series device supports the transmission of raw IEEE 802.11 packets, via a dedicated raw TX API.

Reviewer: "Raw packets are packets that are not touched by the 802.11 MAC layer during transmission"

This is ambiguous. Better explain briefly what be mean by "not touched". E.g.
"Raw packets are not modified by the 802.11 MAC layer on the nRF70 Series device".

Reviewer: "The Application should provide an 802.11 conformant packet with transmit parameters which the 802.11 MAC layer will utilize to transmit packets."

From my discussion with @VivekUppunda I got the impression that the application _must_ provide (not should) , otherwise the MAC layer will drop the packets.

Proposal:
It is the responsibility of the application that uses the raw TX API to construct and provide fully-conformant 802.11 packets along with the required set of packet transmit and PHY parameters. The MAC layer on nRF70 Series device will transmit the raw packets on air using the provided packet  data, TX, and PHY parameters.

Reviewer: And we probably need a link to the API reference for the "Raw TX API" :)

Author: okay

Author: Most of the above are addressed. There is no specific RAW TX API. The manner in which raw packets can be transmitted is to utilize the RAW socket support of Zephyr which allows a direct L2 layer transmission

.. _ug_nrf70_developing_enabling_raw_packet_transmit_feature:

Enabling raw packet transmit feature
************************************

> The raw packet transmit feature for the nrf70 series device is placed under a configuration flag ``CONFIG_NRF700X_RAW_DATA_TX``. The configuration setting can be enabled by enabling the configuration in the ``prj.conf`` of the application attempting to send raw packets.

Reviewer: Simpler version 
"Applications that intend to use the raw packet transmit feature need to enable the  ``CONFIG_NRF700X_RAW_DATA_TX`` Kconfig option in the project configuration.

Author: okay

Author: okay

Author: done

.. _ug_nrf70_developing_raw_tx_operating_modes:

> Raw packet operating modes

Reviewer: I think the title here should be "TX Injection mode"
And first thing we should probably do is to define this mode.

Author: okay

Author: done

**************************

> The nrf70 series device supports raw packet transmission when TX-Injection mode is enabled. A net_mgmt API ``NET_REQUEST_WIFI_MODE`` has been provided to set TX-Injection mode of operation.

Reviewer: Probably implicit, but it is worth mentioning that the enabling of the TX Injection mode is a runtime API

Author: okay

Author: okay

> The nrf70 series device supports raw packet transmission in the below station operating modes:

Reviewer: Is there any other Sub-mode of the Station mode where we do not support sending raw packets? If not, I suggest we do not list the modes here, and simply say that

"TX Injection mode can be enabled when the nRF70 Series device operates in Station mode, both when it is connected or not connected to an Access Point (AP).

Author: okay

Author: done

See the :ref:`wifi_shell_sample` sample for more information on configuring mode setting and channel setting for raw packet transmission via shell commands.

The shell commands and network management APIs to swtich between operational modes and to set channel are provided below

.. list-table:: Wi-Fi raw packet transmission network management APIs
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Network management APIs
     - Wi-Fi shell command
     - Example Usage
     - Description
   * - net_mgmt(NET_REQUEST_WIFI_MODE)
     - wifi mode -i<interface instance> <configuration>
     - wifi mode -i1 -st
     - configure interface instance 1 to Station + TX injector mode
   * - net_mgmt(NET_REQUEST_WIFI_MODE)
     - wifi mode -i<interface instance> <configuration>
     - wifi mode -i1 -s
     - configure interface instance 1 to pure station mode
   * - net_mgmt(NET_REQUEST_WIFI_CHANNEL)
     - wifi channel -i<interface instance> <channel number to set>
     - wifi channel -i1 -c6
     - set raw transmission channel to 6 for interface 1 to be used in Station idle mode

> Raw packet transmit header

Reviewer: This section should have a more generic title and content. Suggest
"TX Injection mode usage requirements"

Author: okay

Author: done

**************************

> The raw packet to be transmitted by an application should be a fully conformant 802.11 packet. In addtion, it should provide transmit parameters that inform the nrf70 series Wi-Fi device driver on how the packet should be transmitted. It should also provide a packet marker identifying itself as a special packet which should be handled differently by the nrf70 series Wi-Fi driver. The transmit parameters and the packet marker together forms the raw packet transmit header. The raw packet transmit header is prepended to the 802.11 conformant raw packet before transmitting the packet to the lower layers by the application.

Reviewer: Suggest to have a sub-title, like: "Packet format rules"

We need a brief description of what we mean by fully conformant IEEE 802.11 packet"
My understanding after talking to @VivekUppunda  is that we mean that
- the 802.11 MAC header is present and valid
- the FCS field is present and valid
Anything else?

Also this is not a "should", but a "must", since, according to my understanding the nRF70 Series will drop frames that do not appear as fully conformant. E.g.

"The application using the raw packet API must construct and provide fully-conformant....."

Reviewer: Transmit & PHY  parameters could be a second sub-title here and you can explain what happens :)

Author: added transmit and PHY parameters for raw packet header elements

   * - data_rate
     - Data rate at which packet is to be transmitted. Depends on ``tx_mode`` parameter. If ``tx_mode`` is set to legacy mode, data rate is the number provided. If ``tx_mode`` is set to HT/VHT/HE mode, the data rate is the MCS rate.
   * - packet_length
     - Packet length of 802.11 raw packet excluding the raw transmit packet header length.
   * - tx_mode
     - Mode describing if packet is VHT, HT, HE or Legacy.
   * - queue
     - Wi-Fi access category mapping for packet.
   * - raw_tx_flag
     - Flag indicating raw packet transmission. This is reserved for driver use.

Refer structure ``nrfxlib/nrf_wifi/fw_if/umac_if/inc/default/fmac_structs.h/raw_tx_pkt_header`` for the raw packet header.

Refer structure ``nrfxlib/nrf_wifi/fw_if/umac_if/inc/default/fmac_structs.h/nrf_wifi_fmac_ac`` for setting the ``queue`` parameter in the raw packet transmit header.

Refer structure ``nrfxlib/nrf_wifi/fw_if/umac_if/inc/default/fmac_structs.h/nrf_wifi_fmac_rawtx_mode`` for setting the ``tx_mode``  parameter in the raw packet transmit header.

.. _ug_nrf70_developing_raw_packet_transmit_operation:

Raw packet transmit operation
*****************************

> The raw packet data has to be encompassed in an 802.11 packet and prepended with the raw transmit header before it is transmitted to the nrf70 Wi-Fi device driver for transmission. The packet structure and raw packet operation is depicted below:

Reviewer: In this section it is probably good to mention that the MAC layer in nRF70 won't modify the contents, but the actual transmission of the packets will follow all typical MAC rules (e.g. link-layer acknowledgements, etc.)

Author: okay

Author: done

* **Unconnected station + TX injection mode configured and channel is not set:** The raw packet is transmitted on channel 1.
* **Unconnected station + TX injection mode configured and channel is set:** The raw packet is transmitted on configured channel.
* **Station connected + TX injection mode configured:** The raw packet is transmitted on the present connected AP channel.
* **Station disconnection from AP + TX injection mode configured (channel configured before connection to AP):** The packet is sent on configured channel for raw packet transmission.
* **Station disconnection from AP + TX injection mode configured (channel not configured before connection to AP):** The packet is sent on channel 1 for raw packet transmission.

.. _ug_nrf70_developing_salient_points:

> Salient points

Reviewer: Fine with this section, but see that you don't really repeat things we already described.

Author: ### okay

.. _ug_nrf70_developing_enabling_raw_packet_transmit_feature:

Enabling raw packet transmit feature
************************************

The raw packet transmit feature for the nrf70 series device is placed under a configuration flag ``CONFIG_NRF700X_RAW_DATA_TX``. The configuration setting can be enabled by enabling the configuration in the ``prj.conf`` of the application attempting to send raw packets.

.. _ug_nrf70_developing_raw_tx_operating_modes:

Raw packet operating modes
**************************

The nrf70 series device supports raw packet transmission when TX-Injection mode is enabled. A net_mgmt API ``NET_REQUEST_WIFI_MODE`` has been provided to set TX-Injection mode of operation.

The nrf70 series device supports raw packet transmission in the below station operating modes:

* **Station idle mode:** The device is operating as an 802.11 station device and is in idle state (not connected to AP).
* **Station connected mode:** The device is operating as an 802.11 station device and is in connected state.

> To enable raw packet transmission, the nrf70 device mode of operation has to be configured to "Station + TX-Injector mode" using the ``NET_REQUEST_WIFI_MODE`` net_mgmt API. When the raw tx mode is enabled, a channel for raw packet transmission also has to be configured mandatorily. This channel will be utilized for raw packet transmission when the station is in disconnected state. When the station is in connected state, the station connected channel will be used for raw packet transmission. Channel configuration cannot be done when station is in connected state. The net_mgmt API ``NET_REQUEST_WIFI_CHANNEL`` can be used to configure the channel of operation.

Reviewer 3: > To enable raw packet transmission, the nrf70 device mode of operation has to be configured to "Station + TX-Injector mode" using the ``NET_REQUEST_WIFI_MODE`` net_mgmt API.

 This contradicts above statement of two modes.

Reviewer: I would rather not use the "raw TX mode" term. Let's stick to fewer terms
- the mode is "TX Injection"
- the operation is "raw packet transmission"

Reviewer: MAybe simplify the description here. The key message is that when the Station is connected, the raw injection mode will only transmit raw packets on the channel the Station is connected/operating on.

An additional message is the NET mgmt API that can be used to set the tx injection mode channel.

Reviewer: "Station + TX-Injector mode"
We probably need links where these modes of operation are defined.

Author: done

> To disable raw packet transmission, the nrf70 device mode of operation has to be configured to "**pure station mode**" using the ``NET_REQUEST_WIFI_MODE`` net_mgmt API.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To disable raw packet transmission, the nrf70 device mode of operation has to be configured to "**station mode**" using the ``NET_REQUEST_WIFI_MODE`` net_mgmt API.
```

Author: okay

Author: done

.. _ug_nrf70_developing_raw_packet_transmit_operation:

Raw packet transmit operation
*****************************

The raw packet data has to be encompassed in an 802.11 packet and prepended with the raw transmit header before it is transmitted to the nrf70 Wi-Fi device driver for transmission. The packet structure and raw packet operation is depicted below:

.. figure:: images/nrf7000_packet_Injection_tx_Flow.svg
   :alt: Raw packet transmit packet structure and raw packet operation flow

   Raw packet transmit packet structure and raw packet operation flow

.. _ug_nrf70_developing_channel_operation:

Channel operation
*****************

Channel configuration for raw packet transmission during station idle mode is necessary. Though there is a fallback channel on which packets are transmitted when the raw packet channel is not configured, It is desirable to configure an explicit channel of operation for raw packets when station is in disconnected idle state. Raw packet transmissions will follow the below channel operation for raw packet transmission:

> * **Station idle + TX injection mode configured and channel is not set:** The raw packet is transmitted on channel 1.

Reviewer 3: Instead of `idle` which could also mean STA connected but no active data, may be we should call `Unconnected STA` ?

Author: okay

Author: done

* **Station idle + TX injection mode configured and channel is set:** The raw packet is transmitted on configured channel.
* **Station connected + TX injection mode configured:** The raw packet is transmitted on the present connected AP channel.
* **Station disconnection from AP and TX injection mode configured (channel configured before connection to AP):** The packet is sent on configured channel for raw packet transmission.
* **Station disconnection + TX injection mode configured (channel not configured before connection to AP):** The packet is sent on channel 1 for raw packet transmission.

.. _ug_nrf70_developing_salient_points:

Salient points
**************

* The nrf70 series device will transmit a raw packet which is a fully conformant 802.11 packet "as is" sent by the Application layer to the lower layer
* The nrf70 series device will not perform aggregation of raw packets
* The nrf70 series device will need the below parameters to be set for each raw packet transmission

   * Transmit mode - whether the packet need to be sent as Legacy/HT/VHT/HE

>    * Data rate - Legacy data rate or MCS rate

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   * Data rate - Legacy data rate or MCS
```

Author: okay

Author: done

>    * queue - which 802.11 QoS queue would the packet be transmitted on (BK/BE/VO/VI)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   * queue - which 802.11 WMM queue would the packet be transmitted on (BK/BE/VO/VI)
```

Author: okay

Author: done
